If a cryptanalyst is able to learn the plaintext in every ciphertext then
the cryptanalyst has completely broken the encryption scheme. This is
accomplished by deducing the secret key, or by other means. The following
are attacks that can be mounted on an encryption algorithm. They all
assume that both the encryption algorithm and decryption algorithm are
publicly known. The attacks are ordered from the weakest threat model
to the strongest threat model.

1. Ciphertext-only attack: The threat model for this attack is one in
which the cryptanalyst is only given access to ciphertexts above and
beyond that which is publicly known. The goal of the cryptanalyst
is to try to determine one or more plaintexts correctly. Any scheme
that succumbs to this type of attack is insecure.

2. Known-plaintext attack: The threat model for this attack is one
in which the cryptanalyst is given access to several ciphertexts and
corresponding plaintexts. Furthermore, it may be assumed that all
ciphertexts were produced using the same key and that the cryptanalyst
is aware of this. The goal of the cryptanalyst is to try to
determine one or more plaintexts correctly for one or more ciphertexts
that the cryptanalyst has not yet seen.

3. Chosen-plaintext attack: The threat model for this attack is one
in which the cryptanalyst is allowed to choose one or more plaintexts
to be encrypted and is permitted to submit them to an encryption
oracle all at once. The oracle then gives the corresponding ciphertexts
to the cryptanalyst. It may be assumed that all ciphertexts are
produced using the same key and that the cryptanalyst is aware of
this. The goal of the cryptanalyst is to try to determine one or more
plaintexts correctly for one or more ciphertexts that the cryptanalyst
has not yet seen.

4. Adaptive chosen-plaintext attack: The threat model for this
attack is one in which the cryptanalyst is allowed to choose one or
more plaintexts to be encrypted and is permitted to submit them
to an encryption oracle. The cryptanalyst is permitted to submit a
plaintext, receive the corresponding ciphertext, and then formulate
another plaintext to submit. Hence, the cryptanalyst can adaptively
choose the plaintexts to be encrypted based on previously received
ciphertexts. It may be assumed that all ciphertexts are produced
using the same key and that the cryptanalyst is aware of this. The
goal of the cryptanalyst is to try to determine one or more plaintexts
correctly for one or more ciphertexts that the cryptanalyst has not
yet seen.

5. Chosen-ciphertext attack: The threat model for this attack is
one in which the cryptanalyst is allowed to choose one or more ciphertexts
to be decrypted and is permitted to submit them to a
decryption oracle all at once. The oracle then gives the corresponding
plaintexts to the cryptanalyst. The decryption oracle is a device
that the cryptanalyst is given temporary access to, but that is still
able to conceal the secret key from the cryptanalyst. The goal of the
cryptanalyst is to try to determine one or more plaintexts correctly
without access to the device for one or more ciphertexts that the
cryptanalyst has not yet submitted to the oracle.

6. Adaptive chosen-ciphertext attack: The threat model for this
attack is one in which the cryptanalyst is allowed to choose one or
more ciphertexts to be decrypted and is permitted to submit them
to a decryption oracle. The cryptanalyst is permitted to submit
a ciphertext, receive the corresponding plaintext, and then reformulate
another ciphertext to submit. Hence, the cryptanalyst can
adaptively choose the ciphertexts to be decrypted based on previously
received plaintexts. The decryption oracle is a device that
the cryptanalyst is given temporary access to, but that is still able
to conceal the secret key from the cryptanalyst. The goal of the
cryptanalyst is to try to determine one or more plaintexts correctly
without access to the device for one or more ciphertexts that the
cryptanalyst has not yet submitted to the oracle.
